name: Governance or Process Discussion
description: Discuss project governance, contribution process, or meta topics
labels: ["governance", "meta"]
body:
  - type: markdown
    attributes:
      value: |
        ## Governance and Process Discussions

        Use this template for discussions about:
        - Project governance and decision-making
        - Contribution policies and processes
        - Code of conduct concerns
        - Release processes
        - Security policies
        - Maintainer practices
        - Community health

        **Note:** This template is for meta discussions about how the project operates, not for bug reports or feature requests.

  - type: dropdown
    id: topic
    attributes:
      label: Topic Area
      description: What aspect of governance or process does this concern?
      options:
        - Contribution guidelines
        - Code review process
        - Release and versioning
        - Security policies
        - Code of conduct
        - Maintainer workflow
        - Issue/PR triage
        - Documentation standards
        - Testing requirements
        - Community engagement
        - Other governance topic
    validations:
      required: true

  - type: textarea
    id: current_state
    attributes:
      label: Current State
      description: What is the current policy, process, or situation?
      placeholder: |
        Currently, the project handles [topic] by [current approach].
        This is documented in [location or "not documented"].
    validations:
      required: true

  - type: textarea
    id: concern_or_proposal
    attributes:
      label: Concern or Proposal
      description: What is the issue or what are you proposing?
      placeholder: |
        Problem: [describe the issue with current approach]

        OR

        Proposal: [describe what you'd like to change and why]
    validations:
      required: true

  - type: textarea
    id: rationale
    attributes:
      label: Rationale
      description: Why is this important? What problem does it solve?
      placeholder: |
        This matters because:
        1. [reason]
        2. [impact on contributors/maintainers]
        3. [long-term benefit]
    validations:
      required: true

  - type: textarea
    id: examples
    attributes:
      label: Examples or Evidence
      description: Provide examples, links to other projects, or evidence supporting this discussion
      placeholder: |
        - Similar approach in [project]: [link]
        - Example of current issue: [description or link]
        - Community feedback: [reference]

  - type: dropdown
    id: impact
    attributes:
      label: Impact Level
      description: How significant would this change be?
      options:
        - Minor process clarification
        - Moderate policy change
        - Significant governance change
        - Major structural change
    validations:
      required: true

  - type: textarea
    id: stakeholders
    attributes:
      label: Stakeholders Affected
      description: Who would be affected by this change?
      placeholder: |
        - [ ] Core maintainers
        - [ ] Regular contributors
        - [ ] First-time contributors
        - [ ] End users
        - [ ] Security researchers
        - [ ] Documentation contributors
    validations:
      required: true

  - type: textarea
    id: alternatives
    attributes:
      label: Alternative Approaches
      description: What other approaches have you considered?
      placeholder: |
        1. [Alternative approach and its trade-offs]
        2. [Another option and why you prefer your proposal]
        3. [Status quo and its limitations]

  - type: checkboxes
    id: checklist
    attributes:
      label: Pre-submission Checklist
      description: Confirm you have completed these items
      options:
        - label: I have searched existing issues for similar discussions
          required: true
        - label: This is about project governance/process, not a feature request or bug
          required: true
        - label: I have clearly explained the current state and my concern/proposal
          required: true
        - label: I understand maintainers may take time to discuss and decide
          required: true
        - label: I understand this discussion may not result in immediate action
          required: true
